Belshazzar the king made a great feast
for a thousand of his lords and drank
wine in the presence of the thousand
while he tasted the wine Belshazzar gave
the command to bring the gold and silver
vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar
had taken from the temple which have
been in Jerusalem at the king and his
Lords his wives and his concubines might
drink from them and they brought the
gold vessels that have been taken from
the temple of the house of God which had
been in Jerusalem and the king and his
Lords his wives and his concubines Trank
from them they drank wine and praised
the gods of gold and silver bronze and
iron wood and stone in the same hour the
fingers of a man's hand appeared and
wrote opposite the lampstand on the
plaster of the wall of the king's palace
and the King saw the part of the hand
that wrote then the Kings countenance
changed and his thoughts troubled him so
that the joints of his hips were
loosened and his knees knocked against
each other the King cried aloud to bring
in the astrologers the Chaldeans and the
soothsayers the King spoke saying to the
wise men of Babylon whoever reads this
writing and tells me its interpretation
shall be clothed with purple and have a
chain of gold around his neck and he
shall be the third ruler in the kingdom
now all the kings wise men came but they
could not read the writing or make known
to the king its interpretation then King
Belshazzar was greatly troubled his
countenance was changed and his Lords
were astonished
the Queen because of the words of the
king and his lords came to the banquet
hall
the Queen's Oh King live forever
do not let your thoughts trouble you nor
let your countenance change there is a
man in your kingdom in whom is the
spirit of the holy God and in the days
of your father light and understanding
and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods
or found in him and King Nebuchadnezzar
your father your father the King made
him chief of the magicians astrologers
Chaldeans
and soothsayers in as much as an
excellent spirit knowledge understanding
interpreting dreams solving riddles and
explaining and nygma's were found in
this Daniel whom the king named belted
Shazzer now let Daniel be called and he
will give the interpretation then Daniel
was brought in before the king
are you that Daniel who is one of the
captives from Judah who my father the
King brought from Judah I have heard of
you that the Spirit of God is in you and
that light and understanding and
excellent wisdom are found in you now
the wise men the astrologers have been
brought in before me that they should
read this writing and make known to me
its interpretation but they could not
give the interpretation of the thing and
I have heard of youth that you can give
interpretations and explain enigmas now
if you can read the writing and make
known to me its interpretation
you shall be clothed with purple and
have a chain of gold around your neck
and shall be the third ruler in the
kingdom let your gifts be for yourself
and give you rewards to another yet I
will read the writing to the king and
make known to him the interpretation o
King the Most High God gave
Nebuchadnezzar your father a kingdom and
majesty
glory and honor and because of the
majesty that he gave him all peoples
nations and languages trembled and
feared before him whom ever he wished he
executed whomever he wished he kept
alive whomever he wished he set up and
whomever he wished he put down but when
his heart was lifted up and his spirit
was hardened in Pride he was deposed
from his kingly throne and they took his
glory from him then he was driven from
the sons of men his heart was made like
the beasts and his dwelling was with the
wild donkeys they fed him with grass
like oxen and his body was wet with the
dew of heaven till he knew that the Most
High God rules in the kingdom of men and
appoints over it
whomever he chooses but you his son
Belshazzar have not humbled your heart
although you knew all this and you have
lifted yourself up against the Lord of
heaven they have brought the vessels of
his house before you and you and your
Lords your wives and your concubines
have drunk wine from them
and you have praised the gods of silver
and gold bronze and iron wood and stone
which do not see or hear or know and the
God who holds your breath in his hand
and owns all your ways you have not
glorified then the fingers of the hand
were sent from him and this writing was
written and this is the inscription that
was written meanie meanie tickle you
Farson this is the interpretation of
each word meaning God has numbered your
kingdom and finished it Tikal
you have been weighed in the balances
and found wanting
Pires your kingdom has been divided and
given to the Medes and Persians
then Belshazzar gave the command and
they clothed Daniel with purple and put
a chain of gold around his neck and made
a proclamation concerning him that he
should be the third ruler in the kingdom
that very night Belshazzar king of the
Chaldeans was slain and derives the
Meade received the kingdom being about
62 years old
you